
Login and Navigation
1. Once you have received your login credentials, go to www.cryoportal.com to log in.
2. Enter your email address and password, then click Sign In. If you have changed your
password and since forgotten it, click Forgot Password? to have a new one emailed to you.

7.Account Management
Cryoport System’s Logistics Management Platform, Cryoportal® 2, allows clients to view and
manage shipping sites, commodities, and other order-related parameters.
Profile
User Profiles can be accessed in the lower-left corner at the Help and User Section.
11. Select the Profile option in the Content Panel to edit a profile.
11.1.
The buttons in the lower-right corner allow you to save changes and alter your
password.
8
Users
Individual Cryoportal® 2 user accounts can be modified according to the user's role. These roles
will determine who may view or edit data, place orders, run reports, and/or add new users.
12. Click on the Navigation Menu icon to access the Libraries tab. Users are featured below
on the left.
13. To review an existing user, click their name in the user list. Additional user information will
appear in the Secondary Content Panel.

14
Click the Create User button and a confirmation message will appear.
12
Sites
Sites are created to save and manage locations where commodities will be shipped to and/or
from. Once the sites are saved in the Cryoportal® 2, they can be used to create new shipments.
16. Click on the Navigation Menu icon to view the Libraries tab. From there, you will be able to
access the Sites.

16.1.A list of existing sites will be displayed. Identify existing sites through the
Search Sites field. Using the Search Site field will allow for a more refined
search.

16
Contacts
Contacts who are created in the Sites module are also saved in the Contacts module.
Additional contacts can also be created directly in the Contacts module to be used in any
shipment.
20. Click on the Navigation Menu icon to view the Libraries tab. From there you will be able to
access the Contacts.

18
Commodities
Commodities are created to save and manage different types of products that will be shipped
between sites. Once the commodities are saved in Cryoportal® 2, they can be used to create
new shipments.
23. Click on the Navigation Menu icon to view the Libraries tab. From there you will be able to
access the Commodities.



19
24.1.
Changes can be made by clicking the Edit button to the right.
22
Order Creation and Management
The Cryoportal® 2 allows clients to place, view, and manage their orders with many of the same
tools and options utilized by Cryoport System’s 24/7/365 Logistics Management team.
Order Entry
Only Client Users, Client Managers, and Client Admins can create orders in Cryoportal® 2.
Once an order is created, the shipment will be reviewed and approved by Cryoport Systems’
Logistics Management team for processing by a Cryoport Systems Logistics Center.
27. Go to the Navigation Menu icon. On the Orders tab, click on + New Order to create a new
order.
28. Order Type: Choose the type of Order and click the Save & Continue button.

23
29. Step 1 of 6
Shipping Route: Sites should be previously created and saved to provide the address and
contact information for the locations where commodities are being shipped to and/or from. For
more information, please see the Sites section (page 13) of Account Management.
29.1.Select the Origin from the Site drop-down list.

24
29.1.1. This will populate the additional fields with the required information from the
existing site.
27
29.1.3.2. For international shipments, the destination site will be designated as the
Importer of Record. If there is a separate Importer of Record, please check
the box and enter the required information below.
28
29.1.3.3. Click the Save & Continue button to proceed.
29.1.3.4.
30. Step 2 of 6
Shippers & Commodities: Cryoport Systems Shippers and Accessories are used to
safely transport Commodities from the origin to the destination site. If you have any
questions about which solutions will best meet your needs, please contact Cryoport
System’s 24/7/356 Customer Service and Logistics Management team by phone (+1 949470-2305) or email (cs@cryoport.com).
30.1.
Select the Shipper from the Shipper Model drop-down list.
To customize the list of available shippers to your account, please
contact Cryoport Systems’ Customer Service and Logistics Management team.
30.2.Select the Commodity by clicking on + Add Commodity.
30.2.1. The Commodity section will expand for the entry of commodities to be shipped
in this unit.
30.2.2. Commodities should be previously created and saved to provide the
description, declared value, and classifications of the product. For more
information, please see the Commodities section (pages 19-22) of Account
Management.
32
30.3.
Select the Commodity from the Commodity drop-down list.
30.3.1. Adjust the Quantity and $/Unit as needed.
30.3.2. Add a Lot/Serial # as needed.
30.3.3. Update other values as needed.
30.3.4. Click +Add Commodity and repeat steps 30.2 and 30.3 as needed to add
more commodities to the shipper.
33
30.5.2. Click + Accessory and repeat steps 30.5 as needed to add different types of
Accessories to the shipper.
30.6.
If additional shippers are needed for this order, click + Add Shipper located in the
lower right corner. Repeat steps 30.1 to 30.5.
30.7.
Once finished, click Save & Continue located in the lower right corner to proceed.
31. Step 3 of 6
Documentation: Order Information
31.1.
Within the Cryoport PO # field, enter your purchase order or other reference number
to appear on Cryoport Systems’ invoice, which will be sent to your accounts payable
department.
31.2.
If you received a quote from Cryoport Systems, enter the Quote # to ensure the
order is billed accordingly within the Cryoport Quote # field.
31.3.
Enter any additional reference numbers/names in the Study/Project # field.
34
31.4.
Enter any special notes/instructions for the Cryoport Systems Logistics Management
team and/or the Logistics Center Operations team in the Additional Instructions Or
Comments field.
31.5.
In the Leg 2 Documentation section, enter the reference number that will be used
on the shipping documents for this leg under Shipment Reference # field.
31.6.
In the Documents section, use the + Document button to upload any documents
associated with the order such as manually-created waybills, import/export permits,
certificates, product spec sheets, etc.
31.7.Once completed, click Save & Continue located on the bottom right corner.
32. Step 4 of 6
Notifications: The Cryoportal® 2 will send automated emails to the user-selected recipients
for up to 8 separate events.

35
32.1.

Submit,Approve,Cancel,Return Leg,Data Logger,Shipper Certification
32.9.
Add Notification recipents by using the + Contact and + Email buttons in the lower
left corner. Select/Deselect Notifications as needed.
33. Step 5 of 6
Schedule Transportation: Cryoport Systems’ standard order model includes three (3)
shipment legs.
33.1.
Leg 1: Arrival of the equipment at the origin site.

36
33.2.
Request shipper(s) arrival at the Origin site (Leg 1 delivery).
33.2.1. Select the arrival date for the shipper(s) to the Origin site. Orders placed by
12:00PM local time from one of the Cryoport Systems Logistics Centers or
Cryoport Systems Global Supply Chain Centers can arrive at the earliest by
the next business day or later if selected.
33.2.3. Leg 2: Transport of the loaded product from origin to destination.
Request shipper(s) pickup from the Origin site (Leg 2 pickup).

37
33.2.4. Select the Pickup Date and Pickup Time for the collection from the Origin
site (Leg 2 pickup) after the commodity has been loaded. If there are any
specific Pickup Location/Instructions, fill out this information in the field
provided. To minimize the overall transit time, we recommend scheduling the
Leg 2 pickup during the same afternoon as the Leg 1 delivery.
33.2.6. For standard courier service, select “Cryoport FedEx” for the Shipping
Account and “Priority Overnight” or “International Priority” for the Service
Level.
33.2.7. For specialty courier services, select the appropriate specialty courier for the
Shipping Account and the corresponding transit time for the Service Level.
33.3.
For 4 Leg Shipments: Repeat step 33.2 for Leg 3 as prompted.

33.4.4. Once completed, click Save & Continue to proceed.


39
34. Step 6 of 6
Review and Submit Order:

40
34.1.
Review the order details to ensure accuracy of the Route, Schedule, Shippers &
Commodities, Documentation, and Notifications before submitting the order for
approval.
34.2.Make any corrections by clicking the Edit Icon on the right of the appropriate
section.
34.3.Once all details are confirmed, click Submit Order.
34.4.
A confirmation will appear on screen to indicate the completion of the order
submission process.
41
Submitted and Unsubmitted Orders
Submitted orders that have gone through the six-step Order Builder Setup process and are
awaiting approval are considered completed.
35. To view Submitted order(s), click on the Navigation Menu icon to view the Orders tab.
From there, you will be able to access the Submitted order(s).
36. A list of existing submitted orders will be displayed. Using the Search field will allow for a
more refined search when looking for submitted orders.
44
40.1.Once the six (6) step Order Builder setup is complete, click the Submit Order
button.
45.Template Creation and Management
The Cryoportal® 2 allows clients to utilize templates to place orders with many of the same tools
used by Cryoport Systems’ 24/7/365 Logistics Management team and as available through the
Order Builder Setup.
41. Click on the Navigation Menu icon to access the Orders tab. From there, you will be able
to access the Templates.
42. A list of existing templates will be displayed in the tab. To review an existing template along
with the corresponding details, click on the template number or name in the list. Using the
Search Order Template field will allow for a more refined search.
43. The details of the template will be displayed in the Secondary Content Panel.
44. In the secondary content panel, you will be able to review the Route, Shippers &
Commodities, Documentation, Schedule, Notifications, and Change Log.
45. Click the Execute button on the right of the secondary content panel to move forward with
the order building process. The majority of the information will prepopulate. As you work
through the order building process, there will be opportunities to edit and update the details
in each step of the order. Click the Save & Continue button after each step to continue.

Standing Orders
Standing Orders can be created to automatically execute templates at predetermined times
based on user preferences.
55. To view Standing Orders, click on the Navigation Menu icon to view the Orders tab.
From there you will be able to access the Standing Orders.
56. A list of existing Standing Orders will be displayed. Using the Search Standing Order field
will allow for a more refined search.

58.3.
A confirmation message will appear, and the new standing order will be saved in the
Standing Order list.
Shipment Tracking and Management
Cryoport Systems’ Logistics Management Platform, Cryoportal® 2, allows clients to track and
manage their shipments with many of the same tools and options that are utilized by Cryoport
Systems’ 24/7 Logistics Management team.
Tracking Shipments
Shipments can be viewed in the Cryoportal® 2 by Client Managers, Client Users, and Client
Admins. Once orders have been submitted, the user's shipment will be reviewed by Cryoport
Systems’ Logistics Management team and approved for processing at a Cryoport Systems
Logistics Center.
59. Click on the Navigation Menu icon to gain access to the Orders tab. From there, you will
be able access shipments that are In Transit.
68
60. Click on the Order # from the list of In Transit orders to view additional information
in the Secondary Content Panel. Using the Search Orders field will allow for a more
refined search.
61. The Secondary Content Panel will allow you to review the shipment details in the
Overview and Status tabs.

69
61.1.
The Overview tab will provide information on the shipment such as the Route,
Additional Instructions or Comments, Shipper(s) details (Commodities, Alarm
Bands, Documentation, and Accessories), Schedule, Subscriptions, and Order
History.
61.2.
The Status tab will provide the Tracking details and monitored events of the
shipper(s) throughout the shipment.
70
61.2.1. The Secondary Content Panel will provide additional actions and documents
regarding the shipment.
61.3.
The Actions drop-down list will feature options to Copy Order, Create Order
Template, and Edit Route. The Temperature Monitoring will provide additional
data and information regarding the shipment.
71
61.4.
The Printing drop-down list will provide documentation such as Waybills, Packing
Slips, Commercial Invoice, Bill of Lading, Ordering Report, Pick Lists, Order
Details, Pricing, All Shipper Barcodes, All Shipper Certifications, Shipping
Labels, Package Leg Labels, Shipment Report, Shipping Plan Intelligence,
Package Details, Temperature Stability Reports, and Print Dangerous Goods
Consignee.
61.5.
The Live View™ feature will provide data and information about the shipper(s) such
as Location, Shock, Internal Temperature, External Temperature, Tilt, Humidity,
and Pressure throughout its shipment journey.

72
61.5.1. To access Live View™, click the Overview tab and scroll down to the Shipper
Information area.

61.5.2. Click the Live View™ button, and the page will open in a separate tab.

73
Submissions Overview
Submitted orders can be viewed in the Cryoportal® 2 by going to the Navigation Menu and
selecting the Orders tab. From there, you will be able to view Submitted orders.

62. Click on the Order # from the list of Submitted Orders to view additional details in the
Secondary Content Panel.
63. The Secondary Content Panel will feature the shipment information in the Details,
Process Controls, Documentation, Notifications and Notes tabs

74
63.1.
The Details tab will provide information regarding the Route, Shipment Contents
(Shipper(s), Commodities, Alarm Bands, and Accessories), Transaction
Details, and Schedule.

63.2.
The Process Controls tab will provide the Additional Instructions or Comments
and Process Controls for the assigned shipper(s).

76
Active Exceptions
Active Exceptions can be viewed in Cryoportal® 2 by going to the Navigation Menu and
selecting the Orders tab. From there, you will be able to access Exceptions.

64. A list of Active Exceptions will appear on the screen. From this view, you will be able to
see each Order on the list and its Severity. Using the Search field will allow for a more
refined search when looking for Active Exceptions.

64.1.
When you click on the Severity of an order, a new window will open with the
information regarding the package.

77
Order History
Order History can be viewed in the Cryoportal® 2 by going to the Navigation Menu and
selecting the Orders tab. From there, you will be able to view existing History.

65. Click on the Order # from the Order History list to view additional details in the Secondary
Content Panel. Using the Search Orders field will allow for a more refined search.

66.1.
The Overview tab will provide information regarding the Route, Additional
Instructions or Comments, Shipper(s) details (Commodities, Alarm Bands,
Documentation, and Transaction Details), Schedule, Subscriptions, and Order
History.
79
66.2.
The Status tab will provide the Tracking details and events of the shipper(s)
throughout the shipment.
80
67. The Secondary Content Panel will provide additional actions and documents.
67.1.
The Actions drop-down list will feature options to Copy Order, Create Order
Template, and Edit Route. The Temperature Monitoring will provide additional
data and information regarding the shipment.
83.Account Data
Cryoport System’s Logistics Management Platform, Cryoportal® 2, allows clients to view account
data through the Customer Dashboard.
84.Customer Support
Please contact Cryoport's 24/7/356 Customer Service and Logistics Management team
if you have any questions or concerns.
Email: cs@cryoport.com
Phone: +1 (949) 470-2305
