 
WEBKORPS  SERVICES  INDIA  PVT LTD 
4th Floor, Winway World Offices, Vijay Nagar, Indore,  Madhya  Pradesh  452010  
 
 
 
 
LEAVE  & ATTENDANCE  POLICY  
 
 
These  are the guidelines  formulated by  Webkorps  Services  India  Pvt Ltd for the Leaves  and attendance  
of all the  employees  of Webkorps  which  all employees  must  abide  to. The purpose of the policy is to 
provide employees who work in India Location with basic facilities which will enable them to do their 
work comfortably and efficiently.  
 
 
Leave Cycles  6 months  of duration  
1st Cycle  1 January  to 30 June  
2nd Cycle  1 July to  31 December  
US Public  Holidays  New Year 1st Jan(Monday)  
15th Jan – Martin Luther King Jr. Day (Monday)  
President Day- 19th Feb(Monday)  
Memorial Day - 27th May(Monday)  
Juneteenth – 19th June (Wednesday)  
Independence Day – 4th July(Thursday)  
Labor  Day- 2nd Sep(Monday)  
Columbus Day - 14th Oct(Monday)  
Veterans Day - 11th Nov(Monday)  
Thanksgiving Day - 28th Nov(Thursday)  
Christmas Day - 25th Dec(Wednesday)  
Leaves  1 Leave  per month  pro-rata basis  
6 Months  policy  All leave  in a particular  cycle  will expire  with end of cycle.  
Leave  encashments  On 30 June  and 31 December  Salary  
 
 
IMPORTANT POINTS:  
 
 Above mentioned US Public holidays are only applicable to the employees who are involved  with 
US projects that are billed  i.e. billable employees . The number of holidays also depend upon which 
holidays their clients are providing, for example, if Juneteenth is not a holiday on client side then 
employee has to work that day but if they provide  another holiday which is not listed above and 
that employee is not involved with any other task, he/she may take the day off and it will be 
considered as PTO.  
 Employees in probation period/on the bench must follow Indian holiday calendar.  
 Employees workin g in Night shift and involved with Day -shift projects should follow Night shift 
calendar only.  
 Employees working in Day shift and involved with Night shift projects should follow Day shift 
calendar only.  
 Employe es working on multiple projects, that may or may not span multiple shifts, are required to 
consult with their TL, HR and Management before taking holiday or ELs when there’s supposed to 
be workdays on one or all of their projects.  
 In case of conflict of holidays on both projects, Management should be  involved in the discussion 
over email thread /project group  and any BOD’s decision will be considered final on whether to take 
leave on the other project(s) or compensate the employee with one day’s full pay.   
 Billable night -shift employees have to inform their client, TL and HR before  applying for their ELs in 
advance, Ideally 15 days before they are planning to take off.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORK FROM HOME:  
 
 Our work -from-home policy permits taking advantage of remote work for a maximum of two days 
per month, and this i s only allowed in cases of emergency.  
 Employees working on billable projects are requested to make sure the environment at home is 
good enough for WFH. Taking WFH and working on unstable internet or taking client calls from a 
noisy or meetings from a messy / poorly lit room can prove detrimental for Project health, therefore 
it is not allowed.  
 Employees on the bench are not entitled for this facility until and unless their TL deems it worthy 
for said employee to be working on a particular task rather than be ing on leave.  
 
COMPENSATION TIME OFF (COMP -OFF):  
 
 All regu lar employees of the company that ar e permanent are eligible for Compensatory offs, 
however, this policy is not applicable to Temporary employees, contractual employees, Trial 
cases and Probationary . 
 If an employee works for two days, they will be mandated to take compensatory time off, without 
receiving any additional compensation.  
 However, if an employee has more than two days of compensatory time off, the remaining days 
will be paid, with a compensation amount of 500/ - per day.  
 Compensation may be granted for the specified national holidays of August 15th, January 26th, 
and October 2nd if employees are obligated to work on these particular dates.  
 The compensation for National holidays will be  one day’s pay per national holiday.  
 All compensations will be credited to the employee’s bank account on 20th of Next month as 
bonus pay.  
 Individuals can avail of compensatory off onl y on the basis of its being pre-sanctioned by a Team 
Lead or Board of D irectors.  
 Not more than 4 days compensatory off can be availed at a time in a month.  
 Paid leaves will be excluded from the computation of Compensation . 
 If an employee does not avail of the Compensatory Off accumulation within one month, then all 
Compensato ry off leaves accumulated during that month shall automatically lapse. No further 
compensation will be given to the concerned employee.  
 Compensatory Off (Comp Off) can be approved upon receiving written confirmation from the 
employee's lead via email , with  HR in CC,  stating that the employee has worked a minimum of 8 
hours on the specified date. Comp Off cannot be availed without the lead's written confirmation.  
 Team Leads are advised to use their discretion and minimize instances of Compensatory off 
requir ements, this is to enable employees to have rest every week from work.  
 The Team Lead will also be held accountable in case records show that an employee who was 
expected to turn up on a holiday did not turn up for work.  
 Compensatory Off can be sanctioned/ rejected depending on the work exigencies.  
 All Compensatory off/or Leave applications must be made in a standard format with due notice.  
 HR-Dept. should ensure the correctness of the Compensatory Record maintenance at all the 
times.  
 In case of any dispute/or any point not touched/covered under any of the above rules, the 
discussion of the Matter -Unit Head will be the final.  
 The above rules are subject to amendment or modification by the Management at its sole 
discretion at any time in future.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
LEAVE  ENCASHMENT  
 
 
Will be paid for Basic  pay(not gross or net pay)   
i.e. basic  salary x leave  not taken  in cycle/ working  days  
 
For Example   
Mr. X’s Basic  Salary  is Rs. 25,000.  
He didn’t take 4 leave s in the 2nd Cycle of (July to 
December)  for month with working days of 22 days.  
  Encash  Leave  for Mr. X = 25,000  X 4 / 22 = 4545 . 
 
Mr. X’s will be paid Rs. 4,545  along  with December’s  salary.  
 
 